EECS 391 Prog2 Outline

Problem has 2 Footmen and one or two Archers, we control the footmen and must kill the archers
We accept an integer that represents how many plies to examine in the game tree
We're using an alpha-beta search with heuristic node ordering

Linear evaluation function to evaluate state value:
	Considerations (in order of importance)
		1. Minimize Manhattan distance between footmen and archer
		2. Maximize total footmen health (0 - 320)
		3. Minimize total archer health (0 - 100)
	
	Possible Functions
		1. Pure distance (assume that we have to be next to the archers to kill them, so closer is better regardless of health) 
		2. Would be nice to have a function that would sort by the three considerations, but I can't think of one right now, probably going to be a weighted linear function
		
Heuristic for Node Expansion:
	Footman Moves:
		1. Attack Archer (can we attack on a diagonal? I think so)(if this is an option we really should prune all other non-attack branches)
		2. Move footman towards archer (we should have a function that can tell in what direction the archer is closest to the footman, and thus tell us how to order each of the 4 possible moves)
		3. Move footman away from archer
		
	Archer Moves (would be nice to have some info one when archers moves vs. attacks, could help us prune/sort better):
		1. Attack footman (probably should prune all other branches if this is an option?)
		2. Move away from footman
		3. Move towards footman
		
	Possible move heuristic for footman:
		xDiff = ArcherX - FootmanX
		yDiff = ArcherY - FootmanY
		if xDiff and yDiff are <= 1, we're attacking
		if xDiff is > 1, archer is east of footman, else archer is west
		if yDiff is > 1, archer is north of footman, else archer is south
		if xDiff + and yDiff +, order should be East, North, West, South (does it really matter if we switch E and N, or W and S? If using Manhattan distance they should be identical)
		if xDiff + and yDiff -, order should be East, South, West North
		if xDiff - and yDiff +, order should be West, North, East, South
		if xDiff - and yDiff -, order should be West, South, East, North
		
AlphaBeta Algorithm

	function alphaBetaSearch
		input is a state
		output is an action to do, corresponding to minimum value of MaxValue(state, -inf, +inf)
		
	
	function maxValue
		input is a state and a depth, alpha and beta
		if it's terminal (all archers dead, or depth limit reached) returns a utility value
		if not
			v = -inf
			for each possible action: a
			v <- max(v, minValue(s,a),alpha,beta))
				if v >= beta
					return v
				alpha <- max(alpha, v)
	
	function minValue
		input is a state and a depth, alpha and beta
		if it's terminal, return a utility value
		if not
			v = +inf
			for each possible action: a
			v <- min(v, maxValue(s,a),alpha,beta))
				if v <= alpha
					return v
				alpha <- min(alpha, v)
		
